Everyone desires a comfortable, reliable and secured home but not all can actually afford it. Affordable smart home system has been the biggest challenge faced by majority of households. Added to this is the difficulty faced by the elderly and physically challenged in the control of home appliances. The focus of this research is on the development of a cost-effective smart home automation system using Arduino technology. It consists of NodeMCU microcontroller board, relay module, IR proximity sensor, buzzer and other components. The circuit design was done with the aid of Circuit diagram maker, Fritzing and Microsoft Visio application. The system implements the control of the devices via Wi-Fi connection using an android phone or any internet enabled device. Users can monitor and control the home appliances using their smart phone or tablet from any location. The appliances can also be automated through the timer feature and with voice command using google assistant. This provides ease and comfort for the elderly and people with disabilities as they can turn on/off the devices with their voice and pre-set time can be fixed for the devices to turn on/off.  The motion detector provides additional security features against intruders as the alarm comes up when an object is detected by the motion sensor. The microcontroller board was programmed using C++ on the Arduino IDE. This technology tends to provide an affordable, comfortable and secured system for the home users. The system is portable, flexible and scalable to accommodate inclusion of more devices.